---
pageTitle: Thoughts on Atlanta's Govathon 2013
title: Thoughts on Atlanta's Govathon 2013
date: 2013-03-24
tags: creative-tech
---

# Thoughts on Atlanta's Govathon 2013


I participated in Atlanta's Govathon 2013 a few months ago. It was fun at times, frustrating at times and overall I thought a pretty good experience for the city's first civic-minded hackaton. City workers and a few citizens pitched a variety of ideas at the beginning of the event. Many were interesting. 

## Presentations and Team Selection
During team selection, I looked around at the teams to see what deficiencies they had -- what kind of team members where they missing? I could participate as a front-end developer or an interaction designer so I kept a wide eye open looking for teams where I could make the most impact regardless of my role.

I chose the team for Civic Spaces because the team had a city employee (the original idea person and presenter) and 5-6 developers; I knew they needed design help. I settled in with the team and we began to work. The devs discussed frameworks and processes and I worked with our project manager to flush out what this project was to become.

## First Evening Sketching and Tech Issues
I spent the rest of the evening doing sketches (see here and here) to work out the interactions and user flow for our prototype. The devs spent much of the evening getting stuck in technical issues and without a true leader in the group to redirect them, their efforts were somewhat fruitless. I hope they learned from that.

## Day Two at Hypepotamus
The next day we met at Hypepotamus to continue our work and prepare for the presentation that afternoon. I could see as the morning progressed that we were off schedule and unlikely to have much functionality to display. Our idea leader, who would present our work, was starting to worry.

Many people know the term UX but few embrace its processes properly and understand that UX isn't a role or person but a mindset everyone on the team must embrace.

## Lessons Learned
1. Sell your idea.
2. Appoint a leader and define clear roles.
3. Make sure there's enough visual design so you're not presenting something ugly on day 2.
4. I would prefer to focus on idea development, sketching and project planning instead of generating code. 

## Future Goals
1. Improve city's interactions with citizens.
2. Shift code focus toward well-defined (and communicated) ideas and executable plans.




